# Reflection

This week, I was particularly drawn to both sound (sonification in particular) and mapping. While I enjoyed playing with Inkscape, which was a new software for me, I do graphic design as a part of my job, and wanted to spend my time learning some new skills. I also had fun delving into building a website, but I feel like I spent less time on that overall and was more captivated by the new forms of representation and storytelling that sound and maps afforded me. 

 Last semester, I took a course that focused on sound studies and the creation of audio narratives, which I adored. It was so much fun to be able to pull out my microphone and record some audio – as well as learn about an entirely new way to showcase historical (and other) data! I was particularly inspired by [Cristina Wood’s sonification of the Ottawa River]( http://songsoftheottawa.ca/index.html). The sonifications, which were sometimes discordant and other times melodic, were always haunting and evocative of the narratives they presented. This was something I tried to bring into my own sonification work. 
 
I chose to do two sonifications, one from the [roman data that Dr. Graham gave us](https://github.com/sidxi/week-five/blob/master/Sonifications/sonification-roman-data.mp3), and one from [one of TwoTone’s sample datasets (honey production in the USA, 1998-2012)](https://github.com/sidxi/week-five/blob/master/Sonifications/Honey%20Production%20in%20the%20USA%20(1998-2012).mp3). Within each one, I thought about the story I wanted to tell. For example, I wanted the methodical nature of counting to really emerge in the Roman artifacts data, so I actually slowed it down by 50%. I also wanted to contrast the artifact line and the coins – the artifact track was duplicated, and kept are lower and slower, while the singular coin track is higher and faster. For the coins, I also chose the marimba because I felt like it had a “clinkier” sound (like money clinking together). I also changed the key to Eb major because I thought it suited the piece better in terms of creating a sonification that was pleasing to the ear. 

My honey piece emerged from a desire to play with more than two different audio tracks. While this probably isn’t technically historical data, I still had a fantastic time working out the kind of story I was hoping to tell and the types of patterns I wanted to highlight. Within this piece, I really wanted to create a busy sound, high-pitched sound that represented the worker bees. I also wanted to have it juxtaposed with another busy track that represented the ebb and flow of trade. Within this piece, I was also important to have the slow march of time moving quietly in the background. If you listen carefully, you’ll hear a shimmery but steady ascending scale (C major) to showcase that. 

When I showed both sonifications to my partner, she first said that she really enjoyed them as audio pieces. I did push for a little bit more, and she admitted that it was hard to think about audio beyond its musicality (and I did try and make them aurally pleasing because I wanted people to be able to enjoy listening to them for a long enough period of time that they would be able to spot the patterns). After spending some time with them, she particularly enjoyed how I’d focused in on the coins and the bees to help present my data (although this could also be that she really enjoys the marimba?). When you listen to these pieces, I would actually suggest listening to them on repeat so that you can hear some of the patterns for yourself. The roman piece loops perfectly (a lovely happy accident), and the honey piece still loops very well. 

For my StoryMap, choosing an appropriate story to tell for the medium was actually the most challenging feature. After exploring StoryMap, I realized that I would need a story that had some travel within it, but that didn’t move so far that it was tricky for the reader to follow a path. I initially was planning on doing a story that focused on a variety of locations in one particular city, [like this super cool map of Neil Gaiman’s _Neverwhere_ locations in London]( https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/0/viewer?ie=UTF8&hl=en&source=embed&msa=0&ll=51.507674000000044%2C-0.0776340000000042&spn=0.10258%2C0.219727&z=12&mid=1MjeHd3GjzMUyHy7sF_bdKqgSEJ0). However, I found that the maps weren’t accurate enough for me to target micro-locations in this specific manner. I also don’t have the training to know many historical narratives in general, and especially not ones that have travel, but not _too_ much travel that it’s hard for a user to follow the story. So, I fell back on one of my favourite historical fantasy novels, Naomi Novik’s¬ _His Majesty’s Dragon_. I love this book, and it was very exciting to see it come to life in a new way within this map. One choice I was particularly happy with was my use of the watercolour map to give it a vibrant, storybook feel, because I felt this really encapsulated the magical way that Novik weaves fantasy with history. [My storymap can be found here]( https://uploads.knightlab.com/storymapjs/407f593cff9fb3076d939865e92e81fd/his-majestys-dragon/draft.html)

In addition, I _loved_ taking my first steps into webmapping! Leaflet was super fun to use, and – despite my mini rant that I don’t feel like I’m “getting” some of the tools we’re using – I can actually see myself getting better at recognizing what’s important within code, as well as where specific elements are. For example, this week I felt confident enough to move beyond the tutorial and actually add a basic zoom function to my map (because I’m of the opinion that if a map is on a screen, it needs a zoom function!). When I started this course just a few weeks ago, there’s no way that I would have been able to do that, nor would I have felt confident enough to attempt it. It might not be as cool as what other people have been doing, but for someone who started this course a total newbie in all things digital history, I feel very proud of myself. It’s kind of amazing that I can see my growth this tangibly, even when it feels like I’m not moving forwards sometimes. 
